
JasperReports Server 4.7.0 Release

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction
2.  What's New
3.  Installation Overview
4.  Login
5.  Starting and Stopping
6.  Upgrade Notes
7.  Known Issues
8.  Release Distributions
9.  Further Information


-----------------------------------------------------------------
1. Introduction

JasperReports Server Community Project is a high-performance,
standalone and embeddable Business Intelligence (BI) platform 
that provides rich reporting capabilities. In addition, 
Jaspersoft OLAP provides data analysis running on the same 
shared BI platform. 

These release notes describe the installation and available 
functionality at a high level; for details, please refer to the 
documentation, which is available at <js-install>/docs after 
installation. In particular, refer to the Installation Guide for 
instructions about running the installer, creating and updating 
the database, deploying the WAR file, and upgrading from 
previous versions.

Note: JasperReports Server is governed by a License Agreement,
the text of which is found at <js-install>/license.txt. Please 
read it before you login to JasperReports Server for the first 
time. If you installed the server using the installer binary 
(rather than deploying a WAR file), you have already agreed to 
this license.


-----------------------------------------------------------------
2. What's New


JasperReports Server 4.7 offers these improvements:

  * Improved user interface - The look-and-feel of the 
    JasperReports Server web interface has been redesigned to 
    increase usable space and be more compatible across browsers. 
    In addition, navigation has been improved with simplified 
    menus and a new Library page that provides quick access to 
    all reports and views a user may access. Note 
    that custom themes developed for the previous interface may 
    need to be updated for the new interface.

  * Interactive Viewer - The report viewer provides more inter-
    active features designed for customizing the layout
    and formatting of a table report. New controls allow the user 
    to change the font, color, and alignment of both headers and
    column values. The new appearance of the report can be saved,
    either overwriting the existing report or as a new report,
    depending on permissions. A new button allows users to
    refresh the report data from within the viewer.

  * Encapsulated Data Snapshots - Reports in JasperReports 
    Server can now store snapshots of the report data in their 
    repository resource. Data snapshots load quickly without 
    querying the data source, thus increasing performance and 
    reducing database load. Data snapshots can be refreshed on-
    demand, by scheduling, or by setting server-wide or report-
    specific policies. For compatibility with existing reports, 
    data snapshots are not enabled by default. New installations 
    should enable data snapshots to benefit from this feature. 
    Existing installations should use the upgrade procedure and 
    resolve any upgrade issues before enabling data snapshots.
  
  * MongoDB - This release adds support for MongoDB as a native
    data source. Jaspersoft has defined a query language for
    MongoDB so that users can define queries for reports and
    input controls that rely on MongoDB.
  
  * Jaspersoft Mobile SDK for Android - Jaspersoft continues to
    expand our mobile BI solutions with an SDK for the Google 
    Android platform. The Mobile SDK provides native classes for 
    interacting with the JasperReports Server web services APIs. 
    The JasperMobile App for Android demonstrates the use of the
    Mobile SDK and provides a BI client on Android devices. The
    Mobile SDK for Android app is available as a separate 
    download from jasperforge.org.

  * Enterprise-grade Security - JasperReports Server includes a
    security framework that filters invalid input and blocks
    potential security threats. This release implements input
    validation blacklists to simplify rules for blocking
    dangerous input. A new feature also provides password
    encryption so that cleartext passwords cannot be intercepted,
    even with non-secure HTTP.

  * Scheduling - The scheduling architecture has been improved 
    to provide more options and flexibility via the web services 
    API. The new architecture also makes it easier to customize 
    the scheduler interface in embedded applications. However, 
    the web user interface for the scheduler does not yet 
    include the new functionality. Jaspersoft will add this
    functionality to the web user interface in subsequent 
    releases.
    
  * Editable OLAP settings. The OLAP settings can now be edited
    on-the-fly without the need to restart the server. This 
    change facilitates troubleshooting activities that rely on
    such settings. Note that your changes made in the UI are not 
    persisted when the server is restarted. To make permanent
    changes to these settings, you must still edit a properties
    file located on the server's host. For more information, 
    refer to the Jaspersoft OLAP User Guide.
  
  * Input Control Optimizations - This release improves the
    server's performance when displaying and submitting input 
    controls, in particular those that rely on cascading. In 
    addition, the code for input controls has been refactored 
    to make it simpler to customize the processing and 
    rendering of input controls.
  
  * Spring Framework - JasperReports Server relies on the Spring
    Framework for web-based applications. In this release, the
    server was upgraded to the latest core libraries of Spring
    Framework 3.1.
    
  * Expanded documentation. New content has been added to the
    documentation set that accompanies JasperReports Server. In 
    addition to changes to the user guides, Jaspersoft now also 
    provides an administrator guide. You can refer to these 
    documents at <js-install>/docs on the servers' host.
    

JasperReports Server 4.5.0 added the following improvements:

  * Evaluation Central - Jaspersoft is pleased to provide this
    resource as a gateway to new users exploring the Jaspersoft
    BI Suite. Point your browser to
    http://www.jaspersoft.com/getting-started for tools,
    documentation, and support to evaluate our solutions. This
    one-stop shop helps you complete your evaluation and engage
    with the Jaspersoft team when you need us. Note that this 
    location covers both Community and Commercial features. 

  * Improved Report Viewer:

    * Interactivity - Reports created with JRXML table components
      are now interactive directly in the server's Report Viewer.
      Users can sort the table by clicking one or more column
      names and filter displayed rows by right-clicking the
      column name, selecting an operator, and entering a value.

    * Excel output format - New export options in the Report
      Viewer produce true single-page spreadsheet output in Excel
      and XLSX format. These options run the report again to
      seamlessly fill tables and crosstabs, so that the spread-
      sheet is ready for further data manipulation in Excel. The
      previous Excel and XLSX options are still available with
      the Paginated label. The paginated options do not run the
      report again (faster), but may contain page artifacts such
      as column or row breaks.

    * Interface - The Report Viewer has been improved to show the
      report name at the top and move pagination controls above
      the report contents.

  * Web Services REST API - In this release, new REST 
    (Representational State Transfer) web services provide 
    complete access to repository resources and server 
    administration. Remote applications can now manage users 
    and roles through RESTful methods. In addition, the REST 
    methods are enhanced to interact with scheduled jobs.

  * Security - JasperReports Server now has enterprise-grade
    security through the integration of a comprehensive security
    framework. This new security framework protects the server
    against common security threats. Customers can configure the
    security settings (switch on/off or change the security
    rules) based on their perceived threat level.

  * Database Server Support - JasperReports Server now supports
    MySQL 5.5 as an RDBMS host for the repository database. You
    must provide the required JDBC driver for this platform.
    Refer to the Installation Guide for details.

  * Code compilation support for Java 1.6. With this release, 
    JasperReports Server no longer supports Java 1.5. This means 
    that all Java 1.6 code syntax is now fully supported.

  * Fix to issue found in 4.2.1 where the View > Repository
    context menu was missing the Add Resource > File option. 
    The menu option has been restored. 

JasperReports Server 4.2.1 added these improvements:

  * iPad Support - JasperReports Server's web application now
    supports the Apple iPad running the Safari browser. In 
    this release, the server supports viewing content (such as
    browsing the repository, running and copying reports, and 
    viewing dashboards) and creating Ad Hoc reports. 
 
  * Interactive HTML reports - Using JasperReports Server, you
    can now publish reports that allow users to sort or filter 
    in the browser. Users click to modify these reports 
    on-the-fly. Interactivity is available for all reports 
    that use the table component. 

  * New HTML Output - The server includes a new XHTML exporter
    that is less strict with regard to overlapping HTML
    elements. You can specify whether the server uses the
    pre-existing HTML exporter or the new XHTML exporter. If
    you want your table component reports to be interactive,
    JasperReports Server must use the XHTML exporter.
    
  * REST API - JasperReports Server now includes web services
    based on the REST style of architecture. In this release, 
    the RESTful services allow you to access repository 
    functionality, such as getting, putting, posting, and 
    deleting objects in the repository. 

  * Database Server Support:
  
    * PostgreSQL - The bundled database installed by default with
      JasperReports Server has changed from MySQL to PostgreSQL
      9.0.4. JasperReports Server continues to support a wide
      range of databases, including MySQL. MySQL users can set up
      JasperReports Server during installation to connect to their
      existing MySQL database. 

      In earlier releases, Jaspersoft also provided and installed
      the driver for the MySQL database. The installer no longer
      provides this driver. MySQL 5.1 users can download the JDBC
      driver, mysql-connector-java-5.1.17-bin.jar, from this web
      site: http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/

    * An existing (unbundled) PostgreSQL instance can be 
      located on a remote host. You need to enable remote 
      connections in the PostgreSQL configuration. See the 
      JasperReports Server Installation Guide for more 
      information. 

    * JasperReports Server now supports MySQL 5.5 as a data
      source. Note that MySQL 5.5 was not supported by 4.2.1 as 
      a repository database.
      
  * Application Server Support - JasperReports Server now 
    supports Tomcat 7.0, and recommends version 7.0.19 or later.

  * Updated versions of JasperReports Library and iReport 
    Designer - JasperReports Server 4.2.1 includes JasperReports 
    Library and iReport Designer 4.2.1, which include support for 
    PDF/A compliant PDF export, and the ability to apply 
    interactivity (sorting or filtering) to report components.

JasperReports Server 4.1 added these improvements:

  * Support for five additional languages - In this release, we 
    added language resource bundles for Chinese, French, German, 
    Japanese, and Spanish. This is in addition to the default 
    English language bundles.

  * Support for 64 bit Installers - You can now download either 
    32 bit or 64 bit installers. The 64 bit installers contain 
    a 64 bit version of Java 6 and a 64 bit version of PostgreSQL 
    5.1 as bundled components. The 64 bit Java 6 JVM is known to 
    run JasperReports Server with greater speed and performance. 

  * Localization of Input Controls - In previous releases, the 
    labels applied to a report's input controls could only 
    support a single language. Now, you can supply resource 
    bundles that define the input control's labels in various 
    languages. In addition, if the input control relies on a 
    fixed list of values, the list of values can also support 
    multiple languages. For more information, refer to the 
    JasperReports Server Community Project User Guide.

  * Templates. Some changes have been made to the server's UI 
    components:
     
    * In order to support certain application servers, some 
      JSP files (in /templates) have been renamed so that
      the names do not include the hash mark (#). These pages
      represent all types of dialogs (such as the About
      dialog and the Save As dialog), as opposed to generic
      components, such as page.jsp or container.jsp. All
      references to these JSPs in the other pages have also
      been updated.
       
    * In the file system of the server's host, the templates 
      folder has been moved from:
        jasperserver/WEB-INF/jsp/modules/templates/ 
          to 
        jasperserver/WEB-INF/jsp/templates/ 
         
      That is, it has been moved up one level.
      
 JasperReports Server 4.0 added these improvements:
 
   * Product Naming. Several changes have been made to  
     Jaspersoft's product names; in particular: 
     * The former "JasperServer" is called "JasperReports Server" 
     * The former "JasperAnalysis" is called "Jaspersoft OLAP" 
   
   These changes are reflected by our products, documentation, 
   and web content. 
   
   * Improved User Interface. The usability and look and feel of 
     the JasperReports Server web user interface has been 
     improved to simplify many user tasks and to make it more 
     visually appealing. The underlying framework introduced as 
     part of this feature (Jaspersoft Interface Framework (JIF)) 
     allows the application's look and feel to be modified more 
     quickly and easily than in previous releases. Note that some 
     types of customization may need to be implemented in a 
     different way in this version than in previous versions.
 
   * Application Themes. JasperReports Server now supports the 
     ability to define themes that control the web interface's
     look and feel. These themes take advantage of JIF to let 
     users define Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), images, and other 
     graphical elements of the application. Themes can be stored in 
     the repository and can be updated without the need to restart 
     the server. 
 
   * Macintosh Installer Support. This release includes a new 
     installer for Macintosh computers. For more information, 
     refer to the Installation Notes section of this doc and to
     the JasperReports Server Installation Guide. 
     
   * Installer Components Updated. The JasperReports Server
     installers have been updated to provide more current 
     applications:
     * Tomcat has been updated from 5.5 to 6.0. 
     * MySQL has been updated from 5.0 to 5.1. 
     * Java has been updated from 1.5 to 1.6.
     
   * Buildomatic Ant Install Scripts Updated. In addition to the 
     binary installers (Windows, Linux, and Mac) the buildomatic 
     installation files have been upgraded with auto-install and
     auto-upgrade batch/shell scripts. Now a single properties 
     file and a single script execution complete most steps for 
     installing or upgrading the server.
 
   * Updated OLAP Engine. This release includes a new version of 
     Mondrian, the OLAP engine underlying Jaspersoft OLAP. The 
     new version of Mondrian is 3.2.0. Major improvements 
     include:
     
      * Improved native performance
      * olap4j drill through support
      * Improved XML/A support
      * Greenplum Dialect
      * Improved parameter support
 
   * Execute-only Permission. A new level of access has been added 
     for repository objects. Execute-only permission gives 
     administrators finer control over what users see in the 
     repository. As in a file system, execute-only permission 
     allows regular users to access resources at run-time but 
     not browse or search for them in the repository. For example, 
     placing data sources in an execute-only folder allows users  
     to run reports and access the data, but hides the data 
     sources from the end user. Administrators can use the
     execute-only permission to hide supporting resources so that 
     end-users interact with only reports, dashboards, and OLAP 
     views in the repository. 
 
   * Log Settings Page. The new log settings page, accessible to 
     administrators by clicking Manage > Log Settings, lets you
     change the  logging levels without restarting JasperReports
     Server.
     
   * New JasperReports version 4.0.0 is included in JasperReports 
     Server. A new CSV query executer is added to simplify the
     configuring of CSV data sources. Also, a new CSV metadata
     exporter has been added to better control the CSV export. 
     The version of iReport included here has also been updated
     to 4.0.0.

      
-----------------------------------------------------------------
3. Installation Overview

Binary Installer
----------------

To install JasperReports Server, you can use the binary
installer, which is available for Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X.
This installer optionally puts Tomcat, Java, and PostgreSQL
onto your system so that JasperReports Server is ready to run.

Download this installer from
http://jasperforge.org/projects/jasperserver/downloads:

 jasperreports-server-cp-4.7.0-<osType>-x86-installer.<ext> (32 bit)

 jasperreports-server-cp-4.7.0-<osType>-x64-installer.<ext> (64 bit)

To install, double-click the installer and click Next on all
pages to perform a default installation. The installer can also
be run from the command line.

For more information on JasperReports Server installation,
refer to the Installation Guide, which is found at:

  <js-install>/docs/JasperReports-Server-CP-Install-Guide.pdf


War File Distribution ZIP js-install Script Installation
--------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: You can use the auto-install command-line shell scripts
if you are installing to the following databases:

  * MySQL
  * PostgreSQL

And the following application servers:

  * Glassfish
  * JBoss
  * Tomcat

For information on the auto-install scripts, see Chapter 5 of the
Installation Guide. To run the auto-install scripts, download
the WAR File Distribution ZIP file from JasperForge:
http://tinyurl.com/3n3rlyo


The file name is:

  jasperreports-server-cp-4.7.0-bin.zip

To install, go to the buildomatic folder, create and edit a 
default_master.properties file, and run js-install-ce.bat/sh:

  cd <js-install>/buildomatic
  
  cp sample_conf/<dbType>_master.properties  default_master.properties

  edit default_master.properties  (with your app server and db properties)

  ./js-install-ce.sh  (or js-install-ce.bat)

  Then setup increased JAVA_OPT memory options for your application
  server following instructions from the Install Guide section 6.2:
  
    For example under Linux:
  
    export JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -Xms1024m -Xmx2048m -XX:PermSize=32m
    -XX:MaxPermSize=512m -Xss2m -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC 
    -XX:+CMSClassUnloadingEnabled"

For full information on the js-install-ce script installation, 
refer to the Installation Guide, which is found at:

  <js-install>/docs/JasperReports-Server-Install-Guide.pdf

Note: For the js-install installation to the MySQL database, you 
must provide a MySQL JDBC driver, which can be downloaded from
the MySQL website.


-----------------------------------------------------------------
4. Login

To login after installation, use the following URL:

  http://<hostname>:8080/jasperserver

During installation, a default administrative user is created:

  User: jasperadmin  Password: jasperadmin

If you install the sample data, a sample end-user is also
created:

  User: joeuser      Password: joeuser

CAUTION: For security reasons, always change the default
passwords immediately after installing JasperReports Server.


-----------------------------------------------------------------
5. Starting and Stopping

If you installed using the binary installer, refer to this
section for information about starting and stopping the server.
For other configurations, refer to the Installation Guide.

Windows:

  You can start and stop from the Windows menus:

  Programs > JasperReports Server > Start and Stop > 
   (Start or Stop Service)

Linux:

  You can start and stop from the command line:

  ./<js-install>/ctlscript.sh (start|stop)

Mac OS X:

  From Finder, double-click the start, stop, or login apps:

  /Applications/jasperreports-server/jasperServerStart.app
  /Applications/jasperreports-server/jasperServerStop.app
  /Applications/jasperreports-server/jasperServerLogin.app

  Alternatively, you can start/stop from the OS X command line:

  ./<js-install>/ctlscript.sh (start|stop)
  

-----------------------------------------------------------------
6. Upgrade Notes

You can upgrade directly to 4.7.0 if your instance is one of the
following:

  * 3.7.0
  * 3.7.1
  * 4.0.0
  * 4.1.0
  * 4.2.1
  * 4.5.0

To upgrade, start with the WAR File Distribution ZIP:

  jasperreports-server-cp-4.7.0-bin.zip
  
It can be downloaded from JasperForge.org at Releases/Downloads area.

The recommended upgrade procedures are fully described in the
Installation Guide. See chapters 7 and 8.


Database Changes
----------------

The jasperserver repository database has changed between version
4.5.0 and 4.7.0. These changes support the upgrade of the quartz 
scheduler component version as well as feature updates, such as 
scheduled report job enhancements.


3.7.0, 4.0.0, 4.1.0, 4.2.1, or 4.5.0 to 4.7
-------------------------------------------

You can upgrade directly to 4.7.0 if you are at a version number 
listed above.

The recommended procedure is described in the Installation Guide 
Chapter 7. In this procedure, you run the js-upgrade script:

  js-upgrade-newdb-ce.bat/sh


NOTE: This procedure sets your jasperadmin login password back to its
default (jasperadmin). This issue will be fixed in a subsequent release.


4.5.0 to 4.7
------------

To upgrade from 4.5, the recommended procedure is described in 
the Installation Guide Chapter 8. In this procedure, you run the 
js-upgrade script:

  js-upgrade-samedb-ce.bat/sh


Upgrading Input Controls to 4.7.0
---------------------------------

Prior to release 4.7, query-based input controls of type string
were allowed for queries that returned dates. As of release 4.7,
the type of the input control must match exactly the type of
the field returned by the query. You must manually update your
query-based input controls to use only controls of type date for
date values.

Query-based input controls also support the $X{} syntax now to
handle equality comparisons with null values as input. The
following query will fail when the value of <parameter> is null:

  select * where <column> = $P{<parameter>} 

Instead, use the following syntax:

  select * where $X{EQUAL, <column>, <parameter>}

The $X{EQUAL...} syntax will generate the correct SQL to compare
the value of the parameter when it is null. For any other types
of comparison, such as greater than, use the $P{} syntax.
  

Security After Upgrading to versions 4.5.0 and later
----------------------------------------------------

With the security framework introduced in JasperReports Server 
4.5.0, user input and values passed to reports are restricted to 
avoid potential security threats. In particular:

* Parameter names and values cannot have tags (that is, the 
  < and > characters). If your business data contains tags, you 
  need to update the security configuration to allow them.

* SQL queries must start with SELECT and cannot have comments.
  If your reports or Domains have queries with comments, you
  must either remove the comments or update the security
  configuration to allow them.

These restrictions were added to comply with security guidelines
for web applications. Removing the restrictions may make the
application more vulnerable to attacks.


-----------------------------------------------------------------
7. Known Issues

* 10254: If your client application uses JasperReports Server's 
  web services to retrieve JasperReports binary files 
  (JasperPrint objects) your client application may crash when it  
  tries to retrieve a report that includes a chart. This is 
  caused by an incompatibility between the version of   
  JFreeCharts in your client application and the version of  
  JFreeCharts in JasperReports Server (currently 1.0.12). To  
  retrieve reports with charts using the web services, you  
  must upgrade your client application to use JFreeCharts 
  version 1.0.12.

  For more information, visit the JFreeCharts website at:
  http://www.jfree.org/

* 21798: Performance in Internet Explorer. When 
  JasperReports Server is accessed through Microsoft 
  Internet Explorer 7, performance may be impaired. 
  Jaspersoft recommends version 8 of Internet Explorer.
  
* 23235: JasperReports Server detects a conflict between JAR
  files when the application is hosted by Glassfish version 2.
  The JasperReports Server JARs in question are WEB-INF/lib/
  jackson-core-lgpl-1.7.4 and jackson-mapper-lgpl-1.7.4. See the
  Installation Guide for instructions to resolve this issue.
  
* 24226: If the JasperReports Server repository is hosted by
  PostgreSQL, your users' names are case-sensitive. This is not
  so for some other types of RDBMS. This is because PostgreSQL 
  defaults to case-sensitive. Jaspersoft will address this issue
  in a subsequent release.

* 24762: When installing JasperReports Server with the default
  settings on a Window 7 system that has a locale specified
  (such as Italian), the installer will fail with an error in
  initdb.exe. A bug in the Microsoft libraries prevents
  PostgreSQL from installing to a folder that is a symbolic link,
  such as the localized name of the default folder, "Program
  Files". As a workaround, specify a folder other than "Program
  Files" for the installation.

* 25644: Reset Admin passwords on upgrade operation. When using
  the js-upgrade-newdb.bat/sh upgrade script (described in
  the Installation Guide) the procedure sets the passwords for 
  the jasperadmin user back to its default value (jasperadmin). 
  Jaspersoft will address this issue in a subsequent release. 

* 28508: When JasperReports Server is hosted by some versions of 
  JBoss 7 (including 7.1.1), its log information isn't written 
  to the correct location. Instead of being written to 
  JasperReports Server's log (<jboss7-home>\jasperserver-pro.war\
  WEB-INF\logs\server.log), JBoss writes to its own log
  (<jboss7-home>\standalone\log\server.log). Because Red Hat 
  acknowledges this issue, and fixed it in a later release of 
  JBoss, Jaspersoft as no plans to address it. 
  
  For more information on this JBoss issue, please see:
  https://issues.jboss.org/browse/AS7-4925
  

These defects, which were listed in the release notes of previous
versions, were fixed in JasperReports Server versions from 4.0
to 4.5.1:

* 11847: (fixed) When JasperReports Server was installed using
  the bundled version of MySQL, and the computer already hosted a
  version of MySQL, the installer sometimes failed with an error
  indicating that it couldn't connect to MySQL. Now, the error
  no longer occurs.

* 17559: (fixed) Glassfish2 with PostgreSQL and Java 1.6. When
  using PostgreSQL, Java 1.6, and JDBC, you had to set the
  jdbc-connection-pool so that 1.6 JDBC methods were not called
  This requirement has been removed.

* 20412: (fixed) Import-Export Help. The --help option for the
  js-import and js-export utilities was not displayed if database
  connection couldn't be made. Now, the --help option returns
  information even if the database connection fails.
  
* 21580: (fixed) Import operation, cached permissions. After an
  import operation, if the import included permission changes to
  files or folders, cached permissions could interfere with the
  new permissions. Now, permission changes made during import are
  properly applied.
  
* 21835: (obsolete) Mac OS X Installer. When installing to an
  existing MySQL instance, users reported errors if the computer
  once hosted a previous installation of JasperReports Server.
  Because the installers no longer include MySQL, the problem
  no longer occurs.
  
* 21953: (fixed) JasperReports Server now supports MySQL 5.5
  as a repository database host as well as a data source. Note
  that Jaspersoft no longer provides the JDBC driver for MySQL. 
  Download it (http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/)
  and copy it to your installation while the server is stopped.

* 24876: (fixed) The Foodmart OLAP schema included an incorrect
  level definition that caused PostgreSQL to return an error. In
  this case, the server indicated that the previous request 
  encountered an error. The schema in the Foodmart OLAP
  connection has been corrected. 
  
  Note that previous release notes reported this problem as
  occurring much more widely than is actually the case. While 
  Jaspersoft reported the problem occurring in all OLAP-based
  Ad Hoc reports that returned data from PostgreSQL, in
  actuality, the error only occurred in a single OLAP schema.
  

-----------------------------------------------------------------
8. Release Distributions

Installer Distributions:

    * Installer General Notes

      The installers contain all components needed to run the
      JasperReports Server web application. Bundled
      components are:

      * Apache Tomcat 6.0
      * PostgreSQL 9.0.4 (32 or 64 bit)
      * Sun JDK 1.6 (32 or 64 bit)
      * JasperReports Server Web Application file
      * iReport 4.7.0

    * Installer Supported Operating Systems (32 bit and 64 bit)

      * Linux Installer

        * Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.4, 5.5
        * Fedora 13, 14
        * Ubuntu 10.10 Meerkat, 11.04 Narwhal
        * Debian 5.0, 6.0
        * Novell SUSE Linux Enterprise 10.2, 11.1
        * CentOS 5.4, 5.5
        * Windows Installer

        * Windows XP (SP2)
        * Windows 7 (SP1)

      * Mac OS X Installer

        * Snow Leopard (10.6)
        * Lion (10.7)

    * Installer Supported Application Configurations

      * Bundled Tomcat with Bundled PostgreSQL
      * Bundled Tomcat with Existing PostgreSQL

      * Existing Tomcat with Bundled PostgreSQL
      * Existing Tomcat with Existing PostgreSQL

War File Binary Distribution:

    The War File Binary Distribution zip currently contains
    sample configurations and repository database setup
    scripts that support the following applications:

     * Apache Tomcat 5.5, 6.0, and 7.0 (Jaspersoft recommends
       7.0.19 and higher)
       * Tomcat 6.0 is also supported with the Linux advanced 
         packageing tool format (apt-get tomcat)
     * SpringSource tc Server 2.0.x bundle (6.0.x runtime) and
       2.1.5
     * JBoss 5.1, 7.1, and EAP 6
     * Sun Glassfish 2.1 and 3.0
     
     * MySQL 5.1 and 5.5
     * PostgreSQL 9.0 and 9.1
     
     * Sun JDK 1.6 and 1.7

End of Support Notice:

    This version of JasperReports Server does not support
    JDK 1.5.


-----------------------------------------------------------------
7. Further Information

Please contact Jaspersoft by visiting our web site:

    http://www.jaspersoft.com
    
When evaluating our solutions, please visit Evaluation Central:

    http://www.jaspersoft.com/getting-started 

Jaspersoft also encourages all its users to visit JasperForge, 
the online home of our community:

    http://jasperforge.org/
    

-----------------------------------------------------------------
Part Number: 0812-JSO47-17

Copyright (C) 2012 Jaspersoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
Printed in the U.S.A. Jaspersoft, the Jaspersoft logo,
Jaspersoft iReport Designer, JasperReports Library,
JasperReports Server, Jaspersoft OLAP, and Jaspersoft ETL
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Jaspersoft
Corporation in the United States and in jurisdictions
throughout the world. All other company and product names are
or may be trade names or trademarks of their respective owners.
